[MUSIC]
Now in the last video, which is the
class of parsing which has two functions
of methods
inside it, one of them is the
initialization
function, and you have one is the display
function.
And then we have the variable people which
is equal to the
person class with two parameters, male,
and the name Alex.
And then we display that.
And if you run that you'll see that we
have
the, exactly the same as what we had last
time.
Now what we're going to do in this video,
is I'm going to explain what it is, why
we call it a method, and not a function,
and also what a method actually is.
So, within a class, method is used to
perform
functionality and we do this by using the
dot.
The dot operator which is the full stop or
the period used within the valuable.
So we have people.display.
So, that tells us when we go to the
people variable which is equal to the
Person array.
That Person class sorry, and then, within
the person class,
we will call it the function or the method
display.
And the reason why we call it the method
and not a variable is because we put
prompts afterwards.
So, this.operator allows us to call upon
an
attribute of the object, which is the
person class,
and so the object, no sorry, the attribute
within the Person of,
Person object, or the Person class is
actually going to be as method this time.
However, if we removed these parameters,
that
would've called forward, that would've
called a variable.
Now obviously we don't have the variable
called displayed, so I'm gonna
put the parameters back in there and keep
it as it is.
And now if we,
And now if you look [UNKNOWN] you'll see
that we have the self,
gender and name, now this is all explained
in the previous video, so, if
you check that out or you've got it or if
you don't quite
understand, and if you can see all you
have to do is call itself.
parameter, self variable, within every
other function.
So if I was to create another function
with it and [INAUDIBLE] you
call self, and we would have all the data
within that which we needed.
Now obviously within this, we can add
another
parameter, say value, and we print that as
well.
So print.
Value, and that will work perfectly fine.
And if I add say, the value 12 and run
that.
It will work exactly the same way.
So you don't have to put all your
parameters within the initialization.
The only reason why you put parameters
inside your initialization
is if you want them to be used within
multiple.
Functions or methods within that class.
And the reason why you do that is because
you apply them
to the self dot then whatever variable you
want to call it.
And that will mean that they are
acceptable within every single
function because you will call self on
every single function as well.
[SOUND] So if we remove that for now,
because I'll just show you what you can
do.
And if you don't call the inish, in it
function, then that's perfectly fine.
It works perfectly well.
Obviously you can't pass in these
variables or the fronters.
Like your doing now because they won't go
anywhere.
You'd have to call them, and paste them
all in individually.
So in each, say, function which you need,
so
in the display cause we're using the
gender I'm
using the name, you'd have to paste those
two
here and collect them in the fronters area
of the.
Display definition, instead of doing it in
the
initialization definition, but that
doesn't really matter too much.
Because most of the time, you'll recall
it's all within the
actual, initialization function.
Okay, so to show you what other things we
can do, [SOUND]
and why people use classes rather than
just methods
or functions, is if we do exactly the same
thing.
[SOUND] As, what we have at the moment,
just
recreate it, so we have two people,
definitions now.
The first one is the initial one, or the
original one, which
you had before, which is your mail, and
your name's Alex, and
the second one, we're just going to call
it, a a site
or a variable called people two, that's
going to be equal to.
And a female called June and if we do
people to .display and
then run that, you'll see that we have two
different things called Now,
even though we're using the same class and
the same object we're using different
objects even though it was the same class
so, the initialization variable.
Because it's self, that refers to it being
this object rather than it being a class.
So, of that self variable and all the
variables close to it
are going to be contained within an
object, namely the people variable.
Where as on people two, early data which
is
passed down to there and it is stored
within it.
It is not going to be stored within the
class itself, but
it is going to be stored within the object
which is people two.
So that's why we can call a same method
but on
different variables and we get different
outputs which you can see here.
Now, this is actually called
encapsulation.
And it's very, very important part of
object-oriented
programming because it means that we can
have
multiple things running side by side
exactly the
same way, and without them conflicting
with each other.
As you can see here, we've got people one
and people two, and
they don't confle, conflict with each
other even though they're both called
Person.
[UNKNOWN] because if were both, if we were
doing this with just methods or just
functions outside
of the class, then they could easily
conflict with
each other because encapsulation does not
actually take place.
So, thank you for watching it and, I'll
see you in the next video.
[MUSIC]